Revamp stories page (#4121)
RasaHQ/rasa: docs/core/stories.rst

Stories
=======

A training example for the Rasa dialogue system is called a **story**.
This is a guide to the story data format.

> .. note::

Reviewer: Agreed, please put the table of contents here with
```
.. contents::
   :local:
```

> .. note::

Author: @MetcalfeTom Won't this be included from your TOC PR?

> .. note::

Reviewer: It's already merged, this page was excluded because there wasn't enough content but it will need it now

> .. note::

Reviewer 2: imo this note still feels out of place. not sure where it goes though. tbh maybe just in the cli for training http://127.0.0.1:8000/user-guide/command-line-interface.html#train-a-model where we could be more explicit about the format of the data folder

Stories
=======

.. contents::
   :local:

> Rasa stories are a form of training data used to train the Rasa Core dialogue management models.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Rasa stories are a form of training data used to train the Rasa's dialogue management models.
```

Format
------

Here's an example of a dialogue in the Rasa story format:

.. code-block:: story

>    ## greet + location/price + cuisine + num people    <!-- name of the story - just for debugging -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ## cheap_spanish_cuisine_in_rome    <!-- name of the story - just for debugging -->
```

Author: I find the `+` naming style more convenient to quickly get a sense of the story order and structure 😄.

Reviewer: I see your point.  Hopefully we can make this more human-readable though

What about `greet, then location & price, then cuisine, then num people` ?

  and contain the name of the action.
- Events returned by an action are on lines immediately after that
  action. For example, if an action returns a ``SetSlot`` event,

>   this is shown as the line ``- slot{"slot_name": "value"}``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  this is shown as ``slot{"slot_name": "value"}``.
```
I know the dash is correct formatting, but since this is in the middle of a sentence it doesn't add to the explanation

Let's now take a slightly more detailed look at each of these components,
along with some things you should keep in mind while using them to write
your own stories.

User Messages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
While writing stories, you do not have to deal with the specific contents of
the messages that the users send. Instead, you can take advantage of the output
from the NLU pipeline, which lets you use just the combination of an intent and
entities to refer to all the possible messages the users can send to mean the
same thing.

It is important to include the entities as well because the policies learn to
predict the next action based on a *combination* of both the intent and
entities.

Actions
~~~~~~~

> While writing stories, you will encounter two types of actions - utterances

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While writing stories, you will encounter two types of actions: utterances
```

and custom actions. Utterances are hardcoded message that a bot can respond
with. Custom actions, on the other hand, involve custom code being executed. 

All actions (both utterances and custom actions) executed by the bot are shown
as lines starting with ``-`` followed by the name of the action. For custom
actions, the action name is the string you choose to return from the ``name``
method of the custom action class. The convention is that utterances begin

> with the prefix ``utter_`` and custom actions begin with ``action_``.

Reviewer 2: I think ``utter_`` is not just a convention but is actually used in the code to determine what happens next -- (if action.startswith(UTTER_PREFIX) or something like that)

Events
~~~~~~

> Events such as setting a slot or activating/deactivating a form have to be

Reviewer: Forms and slots are the **only** events that are included in story data.  So I would write a subsection for each instead of this, so that you can drill home the message that slot setting steps are important

Author: I agree with your point that some amount of description for slot and form events is required here, but that would result in redundant information existing in both the stories page and the forms page. What about simply linking them to the respective pages?

explicitly written out as part of the stories. Having to include the events
returned by a custom action separately, when that custom action is already
part of a story might seem redundant. However, since Rasa cannot easily

> determine this fact during training, this step is a necessary evil.

Reviewer 2: Haha. I think this is a little dramatic 😄maybe a good example would be e.g. your custom action code returns a categorical or boolean slot and you have to change the dialogue flow based on that, so that slot needs to be in the stories or else how would the bot know?

In order to get around this pitfall, the recommended way to write these

> stories is to use :ref:`interactive-learning`.

Reviewer: 🔥Great addition!  I actually think this is **so** important that I would recommend writing a small "Writing story files" subsection with this in it.

Author: What would go under it?

Reviewer: Take inspiration (and perhaps also link to) Juste's [blog post](https://blog.rasa.com/designing-rasa-training-stories/)

Author: Apart from "How many stories to write", I can't think of what sections to include here, because some of them are already present in other pages (like handling chitchat). How about linking to this article instead?

>   in the format ``intent{"entity1": "value", "entity2": "value"}``.

Reviewer 2: Remove line 43 as we've already introduced the name `story` -- replace it with an intro to the bullet points, e.g. "A few things to note about stories:" or something like that

- Actions executed by the bot are shown as lines starting with ``-``
  and contain the name of the action.
- Events returned by an action are on lines immediately after that action.
  For example, if an action returns a ``SlotSet`` event, this is shown as
  ``slot{"slot_name": "value"}``.

> Let's now take a slightly more detailed look at each of these components,

Reviewer 2: This is kind of blog-posty. Maybe something like "more detailed information about each of these components and how to use them follows" but even as i'm writing this, feels like we should just get rid of this paragraph

along with some things you should keep in mind while using them to write
your own stories.

User Messages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
While writing stories, you do not have to deal with the specific contents of
the messages that the users send. Instead, you can take advantage of the output
from the NLU pipeline, which lets you use just the combination of an intent and
entities to refer to all the possible messages the users can send to mean the
same thing.

It is important to include the entities here as well because the policies learn
to predict the next action based on a *combination* of both the intent and

> entities (you can, of course, customize this behavior using the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
entities (you can, however, change this behavior using the
```

maybe something like "the existence of entities" since the value doesn't influence action prediction, just whether or not the entity was picked up.

Author: Not if it's categorical, boolean, etc.

Reviewer 2: No, that's for slots, not entities

Author: Yeah, but the slots are populated from the entities, right?

:ref:`use_entities <use_entities>` attribute).

Actions
~~~~~~~
While writing stories, you will encounter two types of actions: utterances
and custom actions. Utterances are hardcoded messages that a bot can respond
with. Custom actions, on the other hand, involve custom code being executed. 

All actions (both utterances and custom actions) executed by the bot are shown
as lines starting with ``-`` followed by the name of the action. For custom
actions, the action name is the string you choose to return from the ``name``

> method of the custom action class. All utterances must begin with the prefix

Reviewer 2: Explain that for utterances, it's the name of the template in the domain file

> ``utter_``, and custom actions must begin with ``action_``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``utter_``.
```
I wish 😃 it's just a convention we use that it seems like barely anyone else uses

Events
~~~~~~

> Events such as setting a slot or activating/deactivating a form have to be

Reviewer 2: shall we link to the events page?

explicitly written out as part of the stories. Having to include the events
returned by a custom action separately, when that custom action is already

> part of a story might seem redundant. However, since Rasa cannot easily

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
part of a story might seem redundant. However, since Rasa cannot
```

determine this fact during training, this step is necessary.

Slot Events
***********
Slot events are written as ``- slot{"slot_name": "value"}``. If this slot is set
inside a custom action, it is written on the line immediately following the

> custom action event.

Reviewer 2: Add: If your custom action sets a slot to `None`, the slot event looks like ``- slot{"slot_name": null}``

Form Events
***********
There are three kinds of events that need to be kept in mind while dealing with
forms in stories.

- A form action event (e.g. ``- restaurant_form``) is used in the beginning when first starting a form, and also while resuming the form action when the form is already active.

> - A form activation event (e.g. ``- form{"name": "restaurant_form"}``) is used right after a form action event.

Reviewer 2: right after the first form action event (not every one)

> -------------

Reviewer: Make sure all the heading lines are consistent
```suggestion
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

Author: Checkpoints is supposed to be a larger heading than "Events" in this case (in the same level as  "Format")

Another way to write shorter stories, or to handle multiple intents
the same way, is to use an ``OR`` statement. For example, if you ask
the user to confirm something, and you want to treat the ``affirm``
and ``thankyou`` intents in the same way. The story below will be

> converted into two stories at training time. Just like checkpoints,

Reviewer 2: Maybe this "just like checkpoints" sentence should go into the note below instead. it's confusing that we say "it's probably better to restructure your intents:" and then that's not what the story shows (the story shows "the story below will be converted..."

> 

Reviewer: Can you change the above to:

```
    ## first story
    * greet
       - action_ask_user_question
    > check_asked_question

    ## user affirms question
    > check_asked_question
    * affirm
      - action_handle_affirmation
    > check_handled_affirmation

    ## user denies question
    > check_asked_question
    * deny
      - action_handle_denial
    > check_handled_denial

    ## user leaves
    > check_handled_denial
    > check_handled_affirmation
    * goodbye
      - utter_goodbye
```

I realised we never mention that you can use multiple checkpoints

Author: Never knew you could do that!

    * affirm OR thankyou
      - action_handle_affirmation

Just like checkpoints, ``OR`` statements can be useful, but if you are using a
lot of them, it is probably better to restructure your domain and/or intents.

.. note::

>     Adding lines to your stories with many ``OR`` statements

Reviewer 2: maybe include checkpoints in the "slow down training" -- should this be a warning?

    will slow down training.

End-to-End Story Evaluation Format
----------------------------------

The end-to-end story format is a format that combines both NLU and Core training data
into a single file for evaluation. You can read more about it
:ref:`here <end_to_end_evaluation>`.

.. warning::

>     As of now, this format can only be used for evaluation and not for training.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This format is only used for end-to-end evaluation and cannot be used for training.
```
